# ClubPub User Manual - README.md

Welcome to ClubPub! ClubPub is a website for creating, searching, and displaying events hosted by clubs at Harvard College.

## Requirements
Per requirements.txt, run ```pip install --upgrade google-api-python-client oauth2client``` in terminal to install the Google API. To run our program and view the website, simply do “flask run” in the terminal once in the project folder and follow the link.

## Register
The first thing you’ll want to do is create an account on the Register page. Here, you will input your name, email, a username, and confirm your password. Additionally, you can select any club categories you are interested in by clicking on each item in the menu and holding command if you have a Mac or control if you have Windows . Next, you will want to select all of the clubs you are a member of. For each club you select, an email will be sent to that club asking them to confirm your participation in their club and allowing you to post events. Currently, because the website is not published online, an actual link can not be sent so we just used our flask IDE link in testing this, which can be demonstrated via our video. If the website were published, we would replace that with the actual link of the permissions webpage. To find clubs faster, you can simply click on any option in the menu and then begin typing the name of your desired club. After you have completed filling out the form, click the Register button to confirm your account.

## Posting Permissions
After your email has been sent to the club’s you want to post for, the club will be given a link to a permissions page that is otherwise inaccessible. This is because we don’t want a user to be able to update their own permissions. To view this page, you can simply add “/permissions” to the end of your IDE flask hyperlink; however, make sure to log in first to be able to access this page. Once here, the club will select which club they are and what user they want to give posting permissions to. After the form is submitted, the user’s entry in the database will be updated to reflect the club they have permissions to post for.

## Test Accounts
Although you can use the account you just created to access the rest of the website, we would suggest using a test account we made to have access to the full features of the website such as posting events. The username for this account is “test” and the password is “1”. Navigate to the login page to log in as you normally would other websites with your username and password.

## Homepage
After you have logged in, you are brought to the homepage of ClubPub, accessed by clicking on the ClubPub name in the navigation bar. Here, a feed of all the events is displayed in order from most recently posted to the oldest posted events. Information such as the event title, the date, time, location, hosting club, description, and tags of the event are displayed. If the event has a photo, that is also included. You can also choose the option to only view events with your preferred tags by clicking the check box and pressing apply.  Additionally, the website automatically deletes events from this feed, and the database, which are past their date. However, if the start date is before the current day but the end date is after the current date, the event will not be deleted. Events are only deleted after their date span is completely passed. When an event is deleted, its associated photo, if it has one, is also deleted from the files.

## Calendar
Next, navigate to the calendar tab. Here, a Google Calendar of all of the created events is displayed. Events deleted from the feed because their date has passed are still shown in this calendar. If you click on an event in the calendar, you can view all of its relevant information. Additionally, you can view the event location on Google Maps and get directions to it. Furthermore, users have the option to add this event to their own Google Calendar.

## Clubs
The next page is Clubs. Here, you can see a list of all of the clubs at the college. For each club, you can see its name, category, a description if one was provided, their email if one was provided, and users have the option to subscribe to a club. If you subscribe to a club, you will get emails whenever an event is uploaded for that club. You can also search clubs by name via the search bar at the top of the page.

## Create Event
To create an event, navigate to the “Create Event” page. Here, you can fill out all of the information regarding your event. If a user with no permissions to post for clubs tries to access this page, they will receive an error instructing them they do not have any posting permissions. Fill out the name of your event, choose the hosting club by clicking on the drop down menu and typing its name, type a description for your event, choose whether or not you want to upload a picture and upload one if desired, choose any relevant tags for your event, add the event location, add the start date and end date, and lastly add the start time and end time. These last four inputs (start and end date and start and end time) have special properties. If you put in the same start and end date, only one date will be saved in the database not both the start and end date because the event is only one day. If you put in an end date that is sooner than the start date, you will be informed via an error that you must input a valid date span. Similarly, the start and end time, if they are the same, will only be saved as one time. If the event is only one day long and the end time is before the start time, you will be informed via an error that you must input a valid time span. Also, make sure to choose an event date that is after today, because the event feed automatically deletes events from the database past their date so your event will be deleted immediately. There are also other precautions in place, one of which is that users may only post for clubs which they have permission to post for. So, if a user tries to post for a club that they do not have permission for, they will receive an error. If using our test account, select “Small Claims Advisory Service” at the top of the clubs menu as your club, because our test account has permission to post for that club. To create your event, simply click the Create Event. Now, if the form was filled out correctly, your event will appear at the top of the event feed with the relevant information and will also appear in the Google Calendar on the calendar page.

## Search Events
You can also search for events via the Search Event page. Here, you will see three different ways to search for events. The first option for searching is via the tags of events. If you input a tag via the drop down menu and push the Search by Tag button, all of the events with that tag will be displayed. The second option for searching is via the hosting club. If you input a club via the drop down menu (as on other pages you can type the name of the club once in the menu to find it faster) and push the Search by Club button, all of the events hosted by that club will show up. The third option is searching via the name of an event. Simply start typing the name of the event and events with that name of similar names will be displayed.

## Settings
The next page is the settings page. Here, the user has a lot of options for what they can do with their account. First they can view all of their current information, such as their name, username, email, subscriptions, preferences, and permissions for posting. They have the option to change all of this information, as well as create a new password.

## Log Out
By clicking log out, the user is logged out of the website and redirected to the login page.
